>> Srinivasan : ON THIS EDITION
FOR SATURDAY, APRIL 22:
ON EARTH DAY, A MARCH ON THE
NATION'S CAPITAL AND OTHER
CITIES TO STAND UP FOR SCIENCE;
IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT,
SCIENTISTS CONSIDER A RUN FOR
ELECTED OFFICE; AND A PREVIEW OF
TOMORROW'S PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION
IN FRANCE.
NEXT ON PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS AT
LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Srinivasan : GOOD EVENING,
AND THANKS FOR JOINING US.
THE NATION'S CAPITAL HAS SEEN
LARGE DEMONSTRATIONS BEFORE, FOR
CIVIL RIGHTS, FOR AND AGAINST
ABORTION RIGHTS, PROTESTING WARS
AND MANY MORE CAUSES.
TODAY, THE CAUSE WAS SCIENCE AND
DEFENDING IT FROM POLITICAL
ATTACKS.
ON THIS 47th ANNUAL EARTH DAY,
THOUSANDS OF SCIENTISTS AND
THOSE WHO SUPPORT INDEPENDENT,
FACT-BASED RESEARCH ON CLIMATE
CHANGE AND A RANGE OF OTHER
POLICIES, TOOK TO THE STREETS OF
WASHINGTON, ACROSS THE COUNTRY
AND AROUND THE WORLD.
NEWSHOUR WEEKEND'S CHRISTOPHER
BOOKER HAS MORE.
>> Reporter: FROM SYDNEY TO
BERLIN TO LONDON, IT WAS A
GLOBAL DAY OF ACTION, IN THE
WORDS OF ORGANIZERS, TO
"CELEBRATE SCIENCE AND ITS
CRITICAL ROLE" IN SOCIETY.
THE MARCH FOR SCIENCE DREW
SCIENTISTS, TEACHERS AND
STUDENTS IN MORE THAN 500 CITIES
ACROSS THE WORLD, CALLING FOR
MORE SCIENCE-BASED DECISION
MAKING IN PUBLIC POLICIES BOTH
LOCAL AND GLOBAL.
>> TODAY, WE HAVE A GREAT MANY
LAWMAKERS, NOT JUST HERE BUT
AROUND THE WORLD, DELIBERATELY
IGNORING AND ACTIVELY
SUPPRESSING SCIENCE.
>> Reporter: IN THE U.S., THE
EVENT WAS ANCHORED IN A RAINY
WASHINGTON, D.C.
SPEAKERS URGED THE SCIENTIFIC
COMMUNITY TO STEP OUT OF THE LAB
AND ONTO THE POLITICAL STAGE.
>> WE NEED TO MAKE ENSURE THAT
DATA AND EVIDENCE DRIVE POLICY-
MAKING, NOT UNINFORMED IDEOLOGY.
>> Reporter: SPEAKERS ALSO
CRITICIZED THE TRUMP
ADMINISTRATION'S ENVIRONMENTAL
POLICIES AND ITS PROPOSALS TO
CUT FUNDING FOR SCIENTIFIC
RESEARCH.
IN NEW YORK CITY, MARCHERS
DELIBERATELY WALKED PAST THE
TRUMP INTERNATIONAL HOTEL AND
TOWER, PROTESTING THE
PRESIDENT'S PLEDGE TO WITHDRAW
FROM THE 195-NATION CLIMATE
CHANGE ACCORD ADOPTED IN PARIS
IN 2015 AND FORMALLY RATIFIED BY
THE U.S. LAST SEPTEMBER.
PRESIDENT TRUMP SAID IN A
WRITTEN STATEMENT TODAY:
HE ADDED, HE CAN DO THAT
"WITHOUT HARMING AMERICA'S
WORKING FAMILIES" AND WHILE
"REDUCING UNNECESSARY BURDENS ON
AMERICAN WORKERS AND AMERICAN
COMPANIES."
>> Srinivasan : FOR A CLOSER
LOOK AT THE ENVIRONMENTAL
POLICIES OF THE TRUMP
ADMINISTRATION-- WHAT IT'S DONE
AND WHAT IT PLANS TO DO-- I'M
JOINED FROM WASHINGTON BY "NEW
YORK TIMES" REPORTER CORAL
DAVENPORT.
CORAL, THERE'S BEEN A STRONG
PERCEPTION THAT THE TRUMP
ADMINISTRATION WANTS TO UNDO THE
OBAMA LEGACY, STARTING WITH THE
CLEAN POWER PLANT.
>> YES.
PRESIDENT OBAMA, SORT OF THE
CENTERPIECE OF HIS ENVIRONMENTAL
AGENDA WAS THE CLEAN POWER
PLANT, A SET OF ENVIRONMENTAL
PROTECTION AGENCY REGULATIONS
THAT WERE DESIGNED, ESSENTIALLY,
TO SHUT DOWN COAL-FIRED POWER
PLANTS, THE NUMBER ONE
CONTRIBUTOR TO GREENHOUSE GAS
POLLUTION IN THE U.S., AND
SLOWLY SHUT THEM DOWN AND
REPLACE THEM.
AND SO, JUST LAST MONTH, WE SAW
PRESIDENT TRUMP PUT OUT AN
EXECUTIVE ORDER DIRECTING HIS
E.P.A. ADMINISTRATOR, SCOTT
PRUITT, TO BEGIN THE LEGAL
PROCESS OF ESSENTIALLY TOTALLY
ROLLING THAT BACK.
>> Srinivasan : ONE OF THE
THINGS THAT PEOPLE POINT OUT IS
THAT IT'S GREAT TO HAVE AN
INTENTION AND A PROCLAMATION,
BUT THERE IS A TOTALLY DIFFERENT
REALITY ON THE GROUND WHEN IT
COMES TO MARKET FORCES, THAT
THIS DOESN'T AUTOMATICALLY BRING
COAL JOBS BACK OR TURN THESE
PLANTS BACK ON OR IN ANY WAY
DECREASE THE ROLL OUT OF SOLAR
AND WIND THAT'S HAPPENING AROUND
THE COUNTRY RIGHT NOW.
>> THAT'S TRUE.
BEFORE THESE REGULATION WERE PUT
OUT, THEY STILL HAVEN'T ACTUALLY
EVER BEEN IMPLEMENTED, WE HAD
ALREADY SEEN A SHIFT IN THE
MARKETPLACE AS ELECTRIC
UTILITIES WERE CHOOSING, DUE TO
MARKET FORCES, NOT TO INVEST IN
NEW COAL, TO START SHUTTING DOWN
OLD COAL PLANTS AND TO TURN TO
NATURAL GAS WHICH IS CLEANER
THAN COAL, ABOUT HALF THE CARBON
POLLUTION.
BUT MORE IMPORTANTLY FOR
ELECTRIC UTILITIES, IT'S ALSO A
LOT CHEAPER.
AND IN THE LONG RUN, A LOT OF
ELECTRIC UTILITY C.E.O.s SAY,
FIRST OF ALL, WE'RE MAKE THESE
CHANGES BECAUSE OF THE MARKET.
WHAT HAPPENS WITH REGULATIONS IN
WASHINGTON IS NOT REALLY GOING
TO CHANGE THAT.
THIS DOESN'T MEAN WE'RE GOING TO
GO START BUILDING NEW COAL
PLANTS.
FAR FROM IT.
EVENTUALLY, THEY ASSUME THAT
THERE WILL BE SOME KIND OF TAX
OR REGULATION OR GOVERNMENT
RESTRICTIONS ON CARBON POLLUTION
BECAUSE THAT'S THE NUMBER ONE
CAUSE OF CLIMATE CHANGE, AND
THAT PROBLEM IS NOT GOING AWAY.
>> Srinivasan : AND SPEAKING OF
CLIMATE CHANGE, SCOTT PRUITT
CLAIMS HE IS NOT INTERESTED IN
PARTICIPATING IN THE PARIS
ACCORDS, BUT HE'S NOT EXACTLY
THE PERSON THAT CAN MAKE THAT
DECISION.
IT'S NOT A UNILATERAL ONE.
THAT TAKES QUITE A BIT OF TIME.
>> YES, IT'S REALLY INTERESTING
THE DEBATE THAT IS HAPPENING
WITHIN THE WHITE HOUSE OVER WHAT
TO DO ON THE PARIS ACCORDS.
FIRST BECAUSE, FOR PRESIDENT
TRUMP, THAT WAS A SIGNATURE
CAMPAIGN PROMISE.
HIS EXACT WORDS WERE HE WOULD
CANCEL THE PARIS CLIMATE CHANGE
ACCORD.
THAT'S TECHNICALLY NOT POSSIBLE
TO DO.
YOU CAN'T RIP UP A MULTILATERAL
ACCORD THAT'S BEEN LEGALLY
RATIFIED AND SIGNED BY OVER 190
COUNTRIES.
BUT THE U.S. COULD WITHDRAW,
COULD LEGALLY WITHDRAW, AND THAT
WOULD BE A HUGE BLOW TO THE
ACCORD.
WHAT'S HAPPENING RIGHT NOW,
THOUGH, A LOT OF PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S SORT OF CORE BASE
SUPPORTERS AND ADVISERS HAVE
URGED HIM TO GO AHEAD AND ACT ON
THAT, TO ANNOUNCE HE'S GOING TO
WITHDRAW.
HE'S GOT ANOTHER SET OF ADVISERS
WHO ARE SAYING, LOOK, THE
DIPLOMATIC FALLOUT GLOBALLY
FROM-- FROM WITHDRAWING THE
UNITED STATES, THE WORLD'S
LARGEST ECONOMY, THE WORLD'S
HISTORIC LARGEST CLIMATE
EMITTER, HAD BEEN ESSENTIAL
BROKER OF THE PARIS ACCORD, IT
WOULD SEND A MESSAGE TO THE REST
OF THE WORLD THAT THE U.S.
DOESN'T KEEP ITS WORD, AND THAT
COULD COME UP AGAIN AND AGAIN
AND AGAIN.
SO, THERE IS A PUSH FROM LEADING
ADVISERS LIKE SECRETARY OF STATE
REX TILLERSON, LEADING FOREIGN
POLICY ADVISER, AND WE'RE ALSO
HEARING THAT THIS COULD BE
COMING FROM THE PRESIDENT'S
DAUGHTER, IVANKA, AND HER
HUSBAND, JARED, WHO ARE VERY
INFLUENTIAL WITHIN THE WHITE
HOUSE, TO SAYING, "LOOK, MAYBE
WE CAN NEGOTIATE A MIDDLE GROUND
WHERE WE STAY IN THE ACCORD BUT
BUT JUST DON'T DO EVERYTHING
OBAMA SAID WE WERE GOING TO DO."
>> Srinivasan : ALL RIGHT,
CORAL DAVENPORT OF THE "NEW YORK
TIMES" JOINING US FROM
WASHINGTON.
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> GREAT TO BE WITH YOU.
>> Srinivasan : HOW DO
SCIENTISTS REINTRODUCE AN ANIMAL
TO THE WILD ONCE IT BECOMES
EXTINCT?
WATCH OUR INTERVIEW AT THE
SMITHSONIAN'S "EARTH OPTIMISM
SUMMIT" AT:
facebook.com/newshour.
AS THE NEWSHOUR REPORTED EARLIER
THIS WEEK, AND AS TODAY'S
MARCHES SHOWED, SOME SCIENTISTS
ARE BECOMING MORE ENGAGED IN THE
POLITICAL CONVERSATION.
SOME ARE EVEN CONSIDERING
RUNNING FOR OFFICE.
CURRENTLY, ONLY A HANDFUL OF THE
535 ELECTED MEMBERS OF CONGRESS
HAVE BACKGROUNDS IN SCIENCE,
ENGINEERING OR TECHNOLOGY.
IN TONIGHT'S SIGNATURE SEGMENT,
NEWSHOUR WEEKEND'S MEGAN
THOMPSON REPORTS ON AN EFFORT TO
IMPROVE THOSE NUMBERS, AND
WHETHER PARTISAN POLITICS COULD
SPOIL THE OBJECTIVITY THAT
SCIENTISTS BRING TO POLICY
DEBATES.
>> SHE'S PROBABLY GOING TO BE IN
CHARGE OF YARD SIGNS BECAUSE SHE
HAS THE BIGGEST GARAGE.
>> Reporter: ON THURSDAY
MORNING, AROUND 80 PEOPLE FILLED
A HALL IN WASHINGTON, D.C., FOR
LESSONS IN CAMPAIGNING FOR
EVERYTHING FROM LOCAL SCHOOL
BOARD TO STATE LEGISLATURE TO
EVEN THE U.S. CONGRESS.
>> WHEN YOU'RE RUNNING FOR
OFFICE FOR THE FIRST TIME...
>> Reporter: THE AGENDA COVERED
FUNDRAISING, MESSAGING AND
RECRUITING VOLUNTEERS, WITH
POLITICAL VETERANS LIKE JOE
TRIPPI, A HIGH-PROFILE
DEMOCRATIC CAMPAIGN CONSULTANT.
>> THE HUNGER'S DEFINITELY
THERE.
THE ENERGY'S DEFINITELY THERE.
>> Reporter: BUT THE PEOPLE IN
THIS CROWD AREN'T TYPICAL
ACTIVISTS; THEY'RE SCIENTISTS
AND ENGINEERS WHO SAY THE TRUMP
ADMINISTRATION AND REPUBLICAN-
LED CONGRESS HAVE A HOSTILE
ATTITUDE TOWARD SCIENCE AND
RESEARCH, ESPECIALLY WHEN IT
COMES TO ADDRESSING THE THREAT
OF CLIMATE CHANGE.
>> WE REALLY NEED PRO-SCIENCE
VOICES AND PEOPLE WITH
SCIENTIFIC BACKGROUNDS TO STEP
UP AND GET INVOLVED.
>> Reporter: THE GROUP THAT
ORGANIZED THIS SESSION IS 3-1-4
ACTION.
THAT'S 3, 1, 4-- AS IN THE FIRST
THREE DIGITS OF THE NUMBER PI.
FOR NOW, IT'S SUPPORTING ONLY
DEMOCRATS.
SHAUGHNESSY NAUGHTON IS THE
FOUNDER.
>> I'M A CHEMIST.
I WORKED IN BREAST CANCER
RESEARCH AND IN DRUG DISCOVERY.
>> Reporter: NAUGHTON, WHO NOW
RUNS HER FAMILY'S PRINTING
BUSINESS, ALSO KNOWS ABOUT
RUNNING FOR OFFICE.
>> FOR YEARS, I WAS A LABORATORY
CHEMIST DEVELOPING DRUGS TO
FIGHT DEADLY DISEASES.
AS A SCIENTIST, I KNOW THERE'S
MORE THAT WASHINGTON CAN DO TO
HELP FAMILIES.
>> Reporter: SHE'S RUN TWICE FOR
CONGRESS AND LOST IN 2014 AND
2016, IN THE DEMOCRATIC PRIMARY
IN PENNSYLVANIA'S EIGHTH
DISTRICT, NORTH OF PHILADELPHIA.
WHY DID YOU RUN FOR OFFICE?
>> WELL, ONE OF THE REASONS WAS,
I WAS REALLY CONCERNED ABOUT THE
ANTI-SCIENCE RHETORIC WE HEAR
OUT OF SO MANY POLITICIANS AND
THE CUTS TO BASIC RESEARCH
FUNDING THAT I THINK ARE PUTTING
US BEHIND, AS WELL AS HURTING US
ECONOMICALLY.
>> Reporter: NAUGHTON BELIEVES
SCIENTISTS LIKE HER CAN INJECT A
FRESH POINT OF VIEW INTO A
CONGRESS WHERE A MAJORITY OF
MEMBERS HAVE BACKGROUNDS IN LAW,
POLITICS OR BUSINESS.
>> THEY CERTAINLY BRING
SOMETHING TO GOVERNING, BUT I
THINK THAT WE WOULD BENEFIT BY
HAVING MORE PEOPLE WITH THESE
DIVERSE BACKGROUNDS.
SCIENTISTS ARE TAUGHT TO SOLVE
PROBLEMS, AND WE CERTAINLY NEED
MORE PROBLEM-SOLVING AND LESS
BICKERING.
YOU KNOW, TAKING A FACT-BASED
APPROACH TO DECISION MAKING,
LOOKING AT WHAT'S PRESENTED AND
BASING YOUR DECISIONS ON THAT
RATHER THAN SOME PRECONCEIVED
NOTION.
WE'VE HAD CLOSE TO 5,000
SCIENTITSTS CONTACT US TO SAY
THEY WANTED TO RUN FOR OFFICE.
>> Reporter: BUT SO FAR, THE
GROUP HASN'T FOUND A REPUBLICAN
IT CAN SUPPORT.
YOU ARE, AT THIS POINT, ONLY
SUPPORTING DEMOCRATS.
WHY IS THAT?
>> WELL, ALTHOUGH WE DO WANT TO
SEE MORE REPUBLICANS ACT ON
COMBATING CLIMATE CHANGE,
CURRENTLY THE DIFFERENCE IN THE
TWO PARTIES' PLATFORMS IS HARD
TO IGNORE.
AND SO, WE DID FEEL THAT WE HAD
TO PICK A TEAM.
>> Reporter: A ROLE MODEL FOR
THESE POLITICALLY-INCLINED
SCIENTISTS IS RUSH HOLT, A ONE-
TIME PRINCETON UNIVERSITY
PHYSICIST WHO REPRESENTED HIS
NEW JERSEY DISTRICT FOR 16 YEARS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
HE'S NOW THE C.E.O. OF THE
AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR THE
ADVANCEMENT OF SCIENCE, WHICH
HAS 110,000 MEMBERS.
>> THEY'RE BEGINNING TO SAY,
"WELL, HAVE WE REALLY ENTERED AN
EVIDENCE-FREE ERA?
A POST-FACT ERA?"
WHY IS SO MUCH POLICY MADE
APPARENTLY ON IDEOLOGICAL
ASSERTION RATHER THAN
SCIENTIFICALLY VALIDATED
EVIDENCE?
>> Reporter: HOLT, WHO WAS ONE
OF JUST A HANDFUL OF SCIENTISTS
ON CAPITOL HILL, BELIEVES
SCIENTISTS CAN IMPROVE PUBLIC
POLICY EVEN ON LESS OBVIOUS
ISSUES LIKE NATIONAL SECURITY
AND TRANSPORTATION OR THE
ROLLOUT OF PAPERLESS TOUCHSCREEN
VOTING MACHINES AFTER THE
ELECTION IN 2000, MANY OF WHICH
TURNED OUT TO BE UNRELIABLE.
>> THEY NEVER BOTHERED TO TALK
TO THE COMPUTER SCIENTISTS WHO
SAID... WHO, QUICKLY, AFTER THIS
BILL WAS PASSED SAID, "OH, WAIT
A MINUTE.
THESE... THIS PROCEDURE FOR
VOTING IS... IS UNVERIFIABLE AND
UNAUDITABLE."
HAVING A SCIENTIST IN THE
OFFICE, YOU MIGHT IDENTIFY SOME
TECHNOLOGICAL ASPECTS IN THE
LEGISLATION THAT OTHERWISE YOU'D
MISS.
>> AND SO, IT IS OUR
RESPONSIBILITY JUST AS MUCH AS
IT IS TO INVENT THESE
TECHNOLOGIES AND TO DEVELOP THEM
AND TO TEST THEM AS IT IS TO
UNDERSTAND THE IMPACT ON
SOCIETY.
>> Reporter: ONE ENGINEER HOPING
TO HEAD TO WASHINGTON IS JOSEPH
KOPSER.
HE'S A TECH EXECUTIVE FROM
AUSTIN, TEXAS, WHO'S CONSIDERING
A RUN FOR CONGRESS.
KOPSER SPENT 20 YEARS IN THE
ARMY AFTER STUDYING AEROSPACE
ENGINEERING AT WEST POINT.
>> AS A KID, I WAS SO INSPIRED
BY NASA, AND THE IDEA OF BEING
IN SPACE WAS JUST FASCINATING.
>> Reporter: KOPSER IS EXPLORING
A RUN AGAINST TEXAS REPUBLICAN
LAMAR SMITH, A 30-YEAR INCUMBENT
WHO'S CHAIRMAN OF THE HOUSE
COMMITTEE ON SCIENCE, SPACE AND
TECHNOLOGY.
>> MOST OF THE CLIMATE SCIENCE
TODAY APPEARS TO BE BASED MORE
ON EXAGGERATIONS, PERSONAL
AGENDAS AND QUESTIONABLE
PREDICTIONS THAN ON THE
SCIENTIFIC METHOD.
>> Reporter: KOPSER SAYS HE'S
MOTIVATED IN PART BY SMITH'S
SKEPTICAL VIEWS OF CLIMATE
CHANGE SCIENCE.
>> LAMAR SMITH IS A NICE
GENTLEMEN.
HE HAS A VIEW TOWARD SCIENCE AND
TECHNOLOGY THAT IS NOT HELPFUL
IN TERMS OF WHERE OUR ECONOMY IS
GOING.
HIS VIEWS ON CLIMATE CHANGE ARE
NOT IN STEP WITH WHERE THE BODY
OF THE SCIENCE IS.
>> Reporter: SMITH ALSO
SUPPORTED PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
RECENT EXECUTIVE ORDER ROLLING
BACK PRESIDENT OBAMA'S CLEAN
POWER PLAN.
>> THE WHOLE DISCUSSION OF THE
CLEAN POWER PLAN AND REPEALING
SO MUCH OF THAT WORK OVER THE
LAST EIGHT YEARS IS NOT ONLY NOT
SMART IN TERMS OF MARKET FORCES
AND WHAT'S HAPPENING AND THE
ACTUAL TRENDS IN SCIENCE AND
WHAT'S HAPPENING IN THEIR ENERGY
INDUSTRY.
SOLAR AND WIND ARE ACTUALLY
ADDING JOBS TO THE ECONOMY
FASTER THAN COAL RIGHT NOW.
BUT IF WE COME OUT WITH A
RHETORIC THAT IS ANTI-NEW
TECHNOLOGIES AND FAVORING ONE
INDUSTRY, PICKING AND CHOOSING
WINNERS AND LOSERS, THEN WE'RE
GOING TO NOT ONLY BE INVESTING
IN INDUSTRIES THAT ARE ON THE
DECLINE, BUT WE ALSO WON'T BE
ABLE TO UNLEASH THE POTENTIAL
THAT WIND AND SOLAR AND
RENEWABLES HAVE.
>> Reporter: CONGRESSMAN SMITH'S
OFFICE DID NOT RESPOND TO PBS
NEWSHOUR WEEKEND REQUESTS FOR AN
INTERVIEW.
IF KOPSER RUNS AND IF HE WINS
THE DEMOCRATIC PRIMARY IN THIS
CONSERVATIVE DISTRICT, HE PLANS
TO STRESS HIS MILITARY AND
BUSINESS EXPERIENCE.
HE CREATED A TRANSPORTATION APP
THAT HE SOLD TO DAIMLER, WHICH
OWNS MERCEDES BENZ.
KOPSER WILL ALSO FOCUS ON
EDUCATION AND JOBS.
>> IF WE DON'T GET SCIENCE AND
TECHNOLOGY POLICY RIGHT, WHAT'S
AT STAKE IS EVEN MORE PEOPLE
FALLING OUT OF THE ECONOMY.
SO, A GOOD EXAMPLE OF THAT LOOKS
AT WHAT'S GOING TO HAPPEN TO
SOCIETY WHEN AUTONOMOUS
VEHICLES, WHEN MACHINE LEARNING,
WHEN ADVANCED MATERIALS EAT AWAY
AT EVEN MORE JOBS.
AND IF WE CONTINUE THIS ANTI-
SCIENCE OR ANTI-STEM RHETORIC,
WE'RE JUST GOING TO LEAVE THOSE
PEOPLE BEHIND.
IT'S JUST GOING TO MAKE IT
WORSE.
>> Reporter: IF YOU RUN, YOU'D
RUN AS A DEMOCRAT.
IT WOULD BE A PARTISAN CAMPAIGN.
WOULD YOU RISK SORT OF
POLITICIZING SOME OF THESE
ISSUES MORE?
>> YES, UNFORTUNATELY.
BUT THAT SHOULD NOT BE A
DETERMINANT THAT WOULD KEEP YOU
OUT OF THE RACE.
>> Reporter: BUT SOME SCIENTISTS
SAY MAYBE IT SHOULD BE.
>> I THINK IT IS PROBLEMATIC
WHEN SCIENTISTS ARE LUMPING
TOGETHER SCIENTIFIC ISSUES WITH
OTHER POINTS OF ADVOCACY THAT
MAY BE VIEWED AS HAVING A PARTY
AFFILIATION OR A PARTICULAR
POLITICAL BEND.
>> Reporter: ROB YOUNG IS A
COASTAL GEOLOGIST AT WESTERN
CAROLINA UNIVERSITY IN NORTH
CAROLINA WHO'S SEEN HIS OWN
RESEARCH POLITICIZED.
WHEN HE CO-WROTE A 2010 REPORT
PREDICTING A THREE-FOOT SEA
LEVEL RISE ALONG THE CAROLINA
COAST DUE TO CLIMATE CHANGE,
DEVELOPERS WERE OUTRAGED.
THE STATE'S REPUBLICAN-LED
LEGISLATURE THEN PASSED A LAW
BARRING AGENCIES FROM MAKING
POLICIES BASED ON THE FINDINGS.
>> I ABSOLUTELY AGREE THAT WE
NEED TO BE SPEAKING OUT.
I'M NOT ADVOCATING SILENCE, BUT
WE NEED TO DO IT IN A WAY THAT'S
STRATEGIC AND THAT'S EFFECTIVE.
>> Reporter: YOUNG DOESN'T LIKE
THE IDEA OF MARCHING FOR SCIENCE
AND WORRIES ABOUT SCIENTISTS
ALIGNING WITH PARTISAN EFFORTS
LIKE 314 ACTION SUPPORTING ONE
PARTY.
>> IT WOULD BAFFLE ME WHY THAT
WOULD BE THE CASE.
WHAT YOU'RE DOING, ONCE AGAIN,
IS PLAYING INTO THIS NARRATIVE
THAT SCIENTISTS ARE LIBERAL
DEMOCRATS.
AND SCIENTISTS ARE NOT JUST
LIBERAL DEMOCRATS.
>> Reporter: YOUNG THINKS
SCIENTISTS SHOULD GET INVOLVED
LOCALLY RATHER THAN ENGAGING IN
NATIONAL PARTISAN POLITICS,
WHICH HE WORRIES COULD
JEOPARDIZE VALUABLE WORK BEING
DONE BY CAREER SCIENTISTS INSIDE
FEDERAL AGENCIES.
>> AND WE ALSO NEED TO REMEMBER
THAT THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT IS
FULL OF DEDICATED SCIENTISTS AND
ENGINEERS WHO WILL BE SPENDING
THE NEXT FEW MONTHS BRINGING
THEIR POLITICAL APPOINTEES UP TO
SPEED ON WHAT IT IS THAT THEIR
AGENCIES DO AND WHY SCIENCE
MATTERS WITHIN THOSE SCIENCE AND
REGULATORY AGENCIES.
AND WE NEED TO GIVE THOSE PEOPLE
OUR SUPPORT, AND WE NEED TO GIVE
THEM THE SPACE TO WORK.
>> Reporter: 314 ACTION FOUNDER
SHAUGHNESSY NAUGHTON UNDERSTANDS
THESE CONCERNS, BUT SHE SAYS TO
ELEVATE SCIENCE'S PLACE IN
GOVERNMENT, POLITICS CAN'T BE
AVOIDED.
>> WHAT WE DON'T WANT TO SEE IS
SCIENCE UNDER ATTACK FROM
POLITICIANS, AND I THINK THE WAY
WE COMBAT THAT IS TO GET MORE
PEOPLE WITH SCIENCE A SEAT AT
THE TABLE.
>> Srinivasan : FRANCE HOLDS THE
FIRST ROUND OF A PRESIDENTIAL
ELECTION TOMORROW TO REPLACE
OUTGOING SOCIALIST PRESIDENT
FRANCOIS HOLLANDE, WHO CHOSE NOT
TO RUN AGAIN.
WITH 11 CANDIDATES ON THE
BALLOT, NONE ARE EXPECTED TO WIN
AN OUTRIGHT MAJORITY AND BE
ELECTED TOMORROW.
THE FOUR LEADING CONTENDERS FOR
THE TWO SPOTS IN THE EXPECTED
RUNOFF NEXT MONTH ARE: MARINE LE
PEN, THE FAR-RIGHT NATIONALIST
WHO WANTS TO CURB IMMIGRATION
AND HAVE FRANCE LEAVE THE
EUROPEAN UNION; EMMANUEL MACRON,
AN INDEPENDENT CENTRIST AND
FORMER ECONOMIC MINISTER; JEAN-
LUC MELENCHON, THE FAR-LEFT
CANDIDATE WHO WOULD PULL FRANCE
OUT OF THE NATO MILITARY
ALLIANCE; AND FRANCOIS FILLON,
THE CONSERVATIVE FORMER PRIME
MINISTER.
THE VOTE OCCURS THREE DAYS AFTER
A GUNMAN SYMPATHETIC TO THE
ISLAMIC STATE TERRORIST GROUP
KILLED A POLICE OFFICER AND
WOUNDED TWO OTHERS ON THE
CHAMPS-ELYSEES, A FAMOUS
PARISIAN AVENUE.
NEWSHOUR WEEKEND SPECIAL
CORRESPONDENT MALCOLM BRABANT
HAS MORE ON THE RACE.
>> Reporter: DIJON IS IN THE
BURGUNDY WINE GROWING REGION, A
TWO-HOUR TRAIN RIDE EAST FROM
PARIS.
BUT HERE, THERE ARE REMINDERS
THAT EVEN PICTURE POSTCARD
FRANCE LIVES WITH TERRORISM.
STRATEGICALLY PLACED CONCRETE
BLOCKS PROTECT THE PEDESTRIAN
AREA FROM JIHADIS, WHO CONSIDER
TRUCKS AS WEAPONS OF MASS
DESTRUCTION.
FEAR OF ISLAMIC EXTREMISM COULD
HELP MARINE LE PEN, BUT SHE
SCARES LAWYER GUILLAUME BYK.
>> Reporter: BUT ACCORDING TO
OPINION POLLS, A THIRD OF ALL
VOTERS UNDER THE AGE OF 25 WILL
BE OPTING FOR MARINE LE PEN.
EDOUARD CAVIN CAMPAIGNS FOR THE
NATIONAL FRONT IN DIJON.
>> (translated): I THINK THAT
THE YOUNG PEOPLE, SOME OF THEM
MIGHT EVEN HAVE VOTED FOR
FRANCOIS HOLLANDE IN 2012, AND
THEY WERE TOTALLY DECEIVED.
THESE YOUNG PEOPLE HAVE HAD
ENOUGH WITH THE LEFT.
>> Reporter: UNEMPLOYMENT IS
HOVERING AROUND THE 10% MARK AND
IS ONE OF THE KEY ISSUES IN THIS
ELECTION.
PROMISES TO HELP THE
DISADVANTAGED ARE BOOSTING THE
FAR-LEFT CANDIDATE, JEAN-LUC
MELENCHON.
ONE OF HIS SUPPORTERS IS MOHAMED
AMIN MEDJKOUNE, WHO HAS ALGERIAN
HERITAGE.
>> (translated): FOR US, WHAT
MATTERS IS WORK, EMPLOYMENT AND
TRAINING.
WE DON'T WANT TO BE RICH AT ALL
COST.
WE WANT BETTER WORK ACCESS FOR
THE YOUNG PEOPLE BECAUSE WECAN
WORK AND GET RID OF RACISM.
>> Reporter: CHRISTIAN FRESCARD
RUNS AN ORGANIC FOOD SHOP.
HE'S ALARMED BY THE RISE OF THE
EXTREME RIGHT AND HARD LEFT AND
IS OPTING FOR THE CENTRIST
CANDIDATE.
>> (translated): AT THE FIRST
ROUND, I'LL VOTE FOR MACRON.
IF I HAD LISTENED TO MY HEART, I
WOULD HAVE MOST CERTAINLY VOTED
FOR MELENCHON, BUT ONE HAS TO
KNOW WHEN THE WORST HAS TO BE
AVOIDED.
I THINK HE STILL HAS SOME GOOD
IDEAS, BUT MAINLY IT'S TO AVOID
THE WORST.
>> Reporter: THE OTHER FRONT-
RUNNING CANDIDATE IS FRANCOIS
FILLON.
HE WAS EXPECTED TO BE A SHOE-IN
FOR PRIME MINISTER, BUT HE'S
BEEN DOGGED BY FINANCIAL
SCANDALS.
BUT HE COULD ACTUALLY MAKE
SOMETHING OF A COMEBACK BECAUSE
OF THE TERRORIST ATTACK ON
THURSDAY NIGHT.
HARI?
>> Srinivasan : MALCOLM, LET'S
TALK A LITTLE BIT ABOUT THAT.
HOW HAS THE CLIMATE CHANGED IN
THE PAST FEW DAYS SINCE THE
ATTACK?
>> Reporter: AS FAR AS THE
LATEST OPINION POLLS ARE
CONCERNED, THOSE PUT EMMANUEL
MACRON IN THE LEAD AND MARINE LE
PEN IN THE SECOND PLACE AT THE
MOMENT.
BUT, THOSE OPINION POLLS WERE
TAKEN BEFORE THE SHOOTING, AND
SO THERE ARE SOME EXPERTS WHO DO
BELIEVE THAT THE SHOOTING COULD
SERIOUSLY HAVE AN IMPACT, AND
THE PERSON WHO IS LIKELY TO
BENEFIT THE MOST IS GOING TO BE
MARINE LE PEN.
>> Srinivasan : SOMETHING YOU
MENTIONED IN THE PIECE AND EVEN
SOME OF THE FOLKS THAT YOU
TALKED TO IN THE STORY POINT
OUT, THERE IS A LITTLE BIT OF
STRATEGY AS A VOTER GOING IN
BECAUSE THIS IS JUST A FIRST
ROUND.
THEY MIGHT ACTUALLY VOTE IN A
DIFFERENT WAY THAN WHO THEIR
CANDIDATE IS THAT THEY'RE
SUPPORTING JUST TO TRY TO VOTE
AGAINST SOMEBODY WHO THEY
DISLIKE STRONGLY.
>> Reporter: THE FRENCH SYSTEM
IS VERY DIFFERENT FROM THE
UNITED STATES' ONE, AND THERE IS
NORMALLY THE FIRST ROUND.
I MEAN, IF BY SOME MIRACLE,
SOMEBODY WAS TO GET 50% OF THE
VOTE, THEN THEY WOULD GO THROUGH
STRAIGHT AWAY, BUT THAT'S
UNLIKELY TO HAPPEN.
SO, I THINK IN THE FIRST ROUND,
PEOPLE CAN ACTUALLY VOTE WITH
THEIR HEARTS AND WHAT THEY
REALLY THINK.
BUT THEN COME THE SECOND ROUND,
THAT'S WHEN IT GETS REALLY
INTERESTING AND PEOPLE ARE GOING
TO HAVE TO START VOTING
TACTICALLY TO VOTE FOR THE
PERSON THEY-- THEY DESPISE THE
MOST, AND THAT'S WHERE IT
GETS INTERESTING.
MOST PEOPLE THINK WHEN IT COMES
TO ANY OF THE PERMUTATIONS OF
THE OTHERS AND MARINE LE PEN IN
THE SECOND ROUND, THEN SHE WILL
LOSE, UNLESS THERE IS SOMETHING
EXCEEDINGLY NASTY, LIKE AN
ATTACK OF THE MAGNITUDE OF, SAY,
NICE.
>> Srinivasan : HOW MUCH OF
THE FRENCH VOTERS' THINKING
RIGHT NOW REFERS TO THE CONTEXT
OF BREXIT AND THE U.S.
ELECTIONS?
>> Reporter: WHAT CONCERNS
MANY PEOPLE IS THAT THIS
ELECTION VERY MUCH IS ABOUT
EUROPE, AND THE WAY IN WHICH
FRANCE'S POSITION WITHIN EUROPE
COULD ACTUALLY CHANGE BECAUSE
LE PEN AND MELENCHON ARE
TALKING ABOUT RENEGOTIATING, OR
PERHAPS EVEN PULLING OUT OF THE
EUROPEAN UNION.
THE MOST LIKELY WINNER IN ALL OF
THIS, POSSIBLY, IS EMMANUEL
MACRON, WHO IS THIS VERY
GET-UP-AND-GO, YOUNG INDEPENDENT
CANDIDATE WHO IS SUPPOSED TO BE
EXTREMELY BRIGHT GUY.
LIMITED POLITICAL EXPERIENCE BUT
HE HAS CERTAINLY GOT A GREAT
DEAL OF MAGNETISM, AND HE'S GOT
BARACK OBAMA'S VOTE, THAT'S FOR
CERTAIN.
AND THAT MAY HELP HIM IN TERMS
OF IMPROVING HIS INTERNATIONAL
SORT OF RECOGNITION.
>> Srinivasan : ALL RIGHT,
MALCOLM BRABANT JOINING US FROM
PARIS TONIGHT.
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> Reporter: YOU'RE VERY
WELCOME.
>>THIS IS PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND,
SATURDAY.
>> Srinivasan : WINDING UP HIS
TEN-DAY ASIA-PACIFIC TOUR, VICE
PRESIDENT MIKE PENCE HAS MENDED
FENCES WITH LONG-TIME ALLY
AUSTRALIA.
IN MEETINGS TODAY WITH PRIME
MINISTER MALCOLM TURNBULL, PENCE
SAID THE U.S. WILL NOW HONOR A
REFUGEE RESETTLEMENT DEAL MADE
DURING THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION.
PRESIDENT TRUMP ONCE CALLED IT
"DUMB" IN A TWEET AFTER TAKING
OFFICE.
IT CALLS FOR THE U.S. TO ACCEPT
1,200 ASYLUM SEEKERS FROM IRAN,
AFGHANISTAN, IRAQ AND OTHER
COUNTRIES WHO ARE DETAINED BY
AUSTRALIA IN CAMPS IN THE SOUTH
PACIFIC.
IN RETURN, AUSTRALIA WILL ACCEPT
REFUGEES FROM CENTRAL AMERICA
WHO HAD SOUGHT ASYLUM IN THE
UNITED STATES.
REGARDING TENSIONS ON THE KOREAN
PENINSULA AND THE U.S. NAVY
STRIKE GROUP THAT HAS YET TO
ARRIVE, PENCE SAID THE AIRCRAFT
CARRIER "VINSON" AND GUIDED-
MISSILE WARSHIPS WILL REACH THE
SEA OF JAPAN IN "A MATTER OF
DAYS."
PENCE ALSO THANKED AUSTRALIA FOR
URGING CHINA TO PRESSURE NORTH
KOREA TO END ITS NUCLEAR WEAPON
AND BALLISTIC MISSILE PROGRAMS.
AFGHANISTAN'S PRESIDENT, ASHRAF
GHANI, HAS DECLARED TOMORROW A
NATIONAL DAY OF MOURNING AFTER
VISITING AN ARMY BASE STRUCK BY
INSURGENT TALIBAN FIGHTERS.
THE AFGHAN GOVERNMENT SAYS MORE
THAN 100 OF ITS SOLDIERS WERE
KILLED OR WOUNDED YESTERDAY WHEN
TEN TALIBAN ATTACKERS, MANY
DISGUISED AS SOLDIERS WEARING
ARMY UNIFORMS AND DRIVING ARMY
TRUCKS, STORMED THE BASE IN
NORTHERN BALKH PROVINCE.
THE ATTACK BEGAN AS SOLDIERS
WERE LEAVING A MOSQUE AFTER
FRIDAY PRAYERS.
IT WAS THE WORST-EVER TALIBAN
ATTACK ON AN AFGHAN MILITARY
COMPOUND.
THE FIRST COUNTRY TO BURN COAL
TO GENERATE ELECTRICITY 135
YEARS AGO HAS BECOME THE FIRST
TO WEAN ITSELF FROM COAL POWER
COMPLETELY FOR A DAY.
BRITAIN WENT 24 HOURS WITHOUT
USING ANY OF ITS COAL-FIRED
POWER STATIONS YESTERDAY.
INSTEAD, IT USED ELECTRICITY
GENERATED BY NATURAL GAS,
NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS, SOLAR
PANELS AND WIND TURBINES.
ONLY TWO YEARS AGO, COAL
PROVIDED ALMOST 25% OF BRITAIN'S
ELECTRICITY.
BRITAIN PLANS TO PHASE OUT COAL
POWER COMPLETELY BY 2025.
>> Srinivasan : AND FINALLY ON
EARTH DAY, A NEW VIEW OF OUR
RELATIVE PLACE IN THE UNIVERSE.
YOU MAY RECALL THIS FAMOUS 1968
COLOR PHOTO FROM THE "APOLLO 8"
SPACECRAFT.
THE IMAGE "EARTHRISE" HELPED
SPARK THE ENVIRONMENTAL
MOVEMENT.
NASA RECENTLY RELEASED ANOTHER
PHOTO OF EARTH AS SEEN FROM
SPACE.
THIS IS AN IMAGE SENT BACK FROM
THE UNMANNED "CASSINI"
SPACECRAFT.
THE PICTURE IS FROM 870 MILLION
MILES AWAY AS THE SATELLITE
EXPLORES THE PLANET SATURN AND
ITS RINGS.
THAT'S NOT A SPOT ON YOUR
SCREEN; THAT'S THE EARTH, A
LITTLE DOT OFF IN THE DISTANCE.
THAT'S ALL FOR THIS EDITION OF
PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN.
HAVE A GOOD NIGHT.